docs: guide for multi stage delivery (#3080)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/guides/multi-stage-delivery.md

---
comments: true
---

> # Multi-stage Delivery using GitOps

Author: no specific reason - I will adapt the file name then

podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
```

And there will be another `KeptnAppVersion` in the `production` stage.

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-production

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
```

## Promoting a workload

Now that everything is set up, it is time to deploy a new version into `dev`
and automatically promote it into `production` if the deployment into `dev`
has been successful.
To do so, change the `serviceVersion` value in `dev/values.yaml` from `v0.3.0`
to `v0.3.1`:

```yaml title="dev/values.yaml"
{% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-dev-updated.yaml" %}
```

After changing the value, commit and push the updated file to
the upstream repository:

```shell
git add dev/values.yaml
git commit -m "deploy new version into dev"
git push
```

Eventually, Argo CD will notify these changes and apply the updated helm chart
to the cluster.
This is also reflected in a new `KeptnAppVersion` being created in the `dev` stage:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-dev

> TODO

Reviewer: probably needs to be added :)

kubectl create secret generic github-token -n podtato-head-dev --from-literal=SECURE_DATA="{\"githubRepo\":\"${GH_REPO}\",\"githubRepoOwner\":\"${GH_REPO_OWNER}\",\"apiToken\":\"${GH_API_TOKEN}\"}"
```

Next, add the promotion task as a GitHub action by
committing the following file to the repository:

```yaml title=".github/workflows/promote.yaml"
{% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/promote.yaml" %}
```

Next, add the application manifests to the GitOps repository.
Note that in this example, the manifests for the `dev` and `production`
stage are located in two different subdirectories within
the repository to keep it simple.
This might differ heavily depending on how your organization's
GitOps repositories and application stages are organized.

Inside your git repository, create the following files
containing the manifests for the `dev` and `production` stage:

**Dev Stage:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->

=== "dev/templates/application.yaml"

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/application-dev.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "dev/Chart.yaml"

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/chart.yaml" %}
    ```

> === "dev/values.yaml"

Reviewer 2: should we add oneliner explaination for each why they are needed? I know it is redundant but for instance to help user understand promotion magic example works due to the values file

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-dev.yaml" %}
    ```

**Production Stage:**

=== "production/templates/application.yaml"

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/application-production.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "production/Chart.yaml"

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/chart.yaml" %}
    ```

=== "production/values.yaml"

    ```yaml
    {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-production.yaml" %}
    ```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD046 -->

After creating all the files listed above, do not forget to push
them to your git repository:

```shell
git add .
git commit -m "add application manifests"
git push
```

After adding the files to the repository,
it is time to create the Argo CD applications,
one for the `dev` stage, and one for the `production`
stage.
These applications will point to the subdirectories
containing the helm charts for the stages within the upstream

> git repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Git repository.
```

To create the applications on Argo CD, apply the following manifests:

```yaml title="apps.yaml"

> {% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/argo-apps.yaml" %}

Reviewer 3: i think those 2 apps could also be put into content tabs next to each other

```

Once the manifest above has been applied to the cluster,
Argo CD will eventually synchronize with the upstream repository

> and apply the application helm charts located in the upstream repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and apply the application helm charts located there.
```

> Note that initially, both the `dev` and `production` stages will be deployed

Reviewer 3: this could be rendered in a separate note section

```suggestion

> Note: Initially, both the `dev` and `production` stages will be deployed
```

after creating the Argo CD applications.
Subsequent deployments of a new application version however will

> always be deployed by first updating them in the `dev` stage first, and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
always be deployed by first updating them in the `dev` stage, and
```

they be deployed into `production`.

After this initial deployment, there will be a `KeptnAppVersion`
in the `dev` stage:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-dev

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
```

And there will be another `KeptnAppVersion` in the `production` stage.

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-production

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
```

## Promoting a workload

Now that everything is set up, it is time to deploy a new version into `dev`
and automatically promote it into `production` if the deployment into `dev`
has been successful.
To do so, change the `serviceVersion` value in `dev/values.yaml` from `v0.3.0`
to `v0.3.1`:

```yaml title="dev/values.yaml"
{% include "./assets/multi-stage-delivery/values-dev-updated.yaml" %}
```

After changing the value, commit and push the updated file to
the upstream repository:

```shell
git add dev/values.yaml
git commit -m "deploy new version into dev"
git push
```

> Eventually, Argo CD will notify these changes and apply the updated helm chart

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Eventually, Argo CD will notice those changes and apply the updated helm chart
```

to the cluster.
This is also reflected in a new `KeptnAppVersion` being created in the `dev` stage:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-dev

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
podtato-head-v0.3.1-d4735e3a   podtato-head   v0.3.1    Completed
```

After the new version has been deployed, and the post deployment phase
is completed, the `KeptnTask` executed in the promotion phase
triggers a GitHub action that creates a pull request for applying the

> updated values to the helm chart of the `production` stage.

Reviewer 3: I would put this into a numbered list with the steps that happen. I think that will be easier to read.

You will see the PR in the *Pull requests* section of your upstream repository:

![PR for promoting the new version](./assets/multi-stage-delivery/dev2prod-pr.png)

After approving and merging the pull request into `main`,
Argo CD eventually synchronizes the application in the
`production` stage, and the updated version is deployed.
This is reflected in a new `KeptnAppVersion` being created
in the `podtato-head-production` namespace:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head-production

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.3.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.3.0    Completed
podtato-head-v0.3.1-d4735e3a   podtato-head   v0.3.1    Completed
```

## Inspecting the Deployment Traces

To keep track of how a workload version progresses through

> the stages, we passed through the OTel span id of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the stages, we passed through the OpenTelemetry span id of the
```

promotion phase in the `dev` stage to the applied
`KeptnAppContext` in the `production` stage.
Due to that, the deployment trace of the promoted version
in the `production` stage contains the reference to the
promotion phase, which is also visible in the trace visualization in Jaeger:

> ![Deployment Trace](./assets/multi-stage-delivery/trace.png)

Reviewer 3: I think a conclusion section would be good here, that repeats what the users just went through.
